# Random Text Generator

In this assignment, I wrote a program that writes essays "automatically" (i.e. generates random text).  To make the result sound more like real English, than say just choosing random words from the dictionary, the program uses some sample texts (under the `data` folder) to give us information about likely words and word sequences.

The program uses a **word-level Markov chain** to generate the random text.

## Program Details 

The program generates the output using the frequencies of occurrences of words in the source text. These frequencies help the program choose the next word to generate in our random text. For example, if **"the"** occurs with probability 0.03 in the source text, then we will generate it with that probability.

This could be done easily by every time just choosing a word at random from the source text. We call random text generated this way **order-0** text. We get something that sounds a little more like English by taking into account sequences of words from the source text. For **order-1** text, once we generate a word, we generate the next word based on its probability of following the first word in the source text. We could generalize this, using **order-k** word sequences, which we call prefixes
here. *Every k-word prefix we generate is a sequence found in the source text*. 

The next word is thus generated by looking at the frequency of all of the successors of this prefix in the source text. For order-k text, here we're going to call "k" the *prefixLength*, and the previous k words generated we'll call the current *prefix*.

### Run the Program

The following is the sample format for a run of the program,

```
java GenText [-d] prefixLength numWords sourceFile outFile
```

which generates **numWords** words of **prefixLength-order** text using **sourceFile** as the source document. The generated words are written to **outFile** (not the console). The square brackets ([]) above denote optional arguments to the program (the square brackets themselves are not part of the command line). You have one optional argument here, "-d", the presence of which means the program will be run in debugging mode.


